---
layout: post
title:  current state of my life
date:   2015-04-28 16:40:16
description: march & april, looking forward to summer
---
It seems I haven’t used this blog for blogging in quite some time, if ever. Today has been one of those days where I’m thinking about the state of my life and determined to document it. I’m also thinking about an abandonment of this blog (*theatrical gasp*) and a consolidation of blog and portfolio. Perhaps a summer side-project.

These days—or weeks, rather—have been so incredibly filled with joy, hope, and optimism. A beautiful by-product of coming back to MIT lacking depression: somehow, I’ve been able to attribute everything bad that used to happen to me here to said depression, and now everything is rosy. Psets get done, class get attended, sleep, hobbies, and social interactions are had left and right. I’m in awe of how great everything is. 

In psychology, we talked about stress moderation in rats. Rats that are given wood to gnaw on, wheels to run on, or other rats to bite have lower rates of stress related illnesses. I’m those rats: I have my knitting (44 hexipuffs and counting), I have my treadmill and my weight room, and I have noisy people in class to <del>bite</del> shush. I’m completely stress-moderated. 

I’m looking forward to this summer. Once finals week is over, I’m taking a much-deserved hiatus from all responsibility. Boulder for a week with the boyfriend, two weeks with the family (and my fixie!). After that, it’s a circus act of work, work, work on various different projects, plus a lot of time and energy to focus on my own project. At least that’s the hope. High on the list of things that I want to complete is an app that I’ve been mulling over for weeks. I want to knock out a few chapters and get a structure going for my novel, partition up the work. Apparently I now want to rework my website (for the n<sup>th</sup> time). And in between all that: cooking, baking, running, biking, and lifting. 

On the subject of health, I’m completely enamored by the data that’s been opened up for analysis courtesy of my newly acquired fitness tracker. It feeds into my competitive nature—each day is a valiant quest to one-up past me. I don’t even need other people to compete against, such is my conquering drive. It’s been wildly successful with encouraging movement, and successful (to a point) with encouraging healthy snacking. Relevant: *when am I going to eat a meal that scores a perfect 10?!* The only thing I still struggle with at times is over-eating. That late night appetite is the worst, because at that point, I’ve sapped all my self-control and the only effective solution is to go to bed. That’s has helped me with getting up early, so it’s not a total loss. 

And that’s the haps, folks. 